Page 1 sur 2	ecole-ci.online (Ce document ne peut être vendu sous aucune condition- Tout contrevenant s’expose à des
Niveau : Tle
Discipline : ANGLAIS CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 3: Development issues
SKILL: WRITING AN ARTICLE
I. LEARNING CONTEXT
The students of terminale C1of the Lycée Moderne Adjamé Harris are invited by the American school in
Abidjan. There, participants from different countries of the world discuss about threatened groups in their
home country so as to write an article about them.
II. LESSON CONTENT
Activity 1: The box below shows the headlines of paragraphs in an article dealing with an
indigenous group whose lifestyle is threatened. Match each headline to its corresponding
paragraph. The paragraphs appear in a logical order.
reason why this lifestyle is under threat today – importance of saving native people -
introduction – conclusion; possible solutions – description of their traditional way of life
Paragraph 1: …………………………………………………………………………………….
Paragraph 2: …………………………………………………………………………………….
Paragraph 3: …………………………………………………………………………………….
Paragraph 4: …………………………………………………………………………………….
Paragraph 5: …………………………………………………………………………………….
Activity 2: The following ideas are possible ideas to be inserted in the article. Match each of them
with the paragraph 2-5 in which they are likely to be mentioned.
flood of their land – wisdom and knowledge – adapt to their environment – pay compensation – building
of a dam – settlements – marriage customs – cultivation – organize protests – fighting for survival -
preservation of authenticity

-- 1 of 2 --

Page 2 sur 2	ecole-ci.online (Ce document ne peut être vendu sous aucune condition- Tout contrevenant s’expose à des
PARAGRAPHS IDEAS
Paragraph 2
Paragraph 3
Paragraph 4
Paragraph 5
Activity 3: The following statements are about an article writing. Say whether they are true or
false.
STATEMENTS TRUE OR
FALSE
An article always starts by a title
An article is not divided into an introduction, a main body and a conclusion
In the introduction, the writer clearly gives his opinion.
The conclusion and the introduction should be longer than the main body
Each paragraph in the main body should be dedicated to a single idea
III. COMMUNICATIVE ACTIVITIES
Activity4 : Write an article to a newspaper about an indigenous group whose lifestyle is threatened. Focus
your article on the causes of the situation and possible solutions to protect this group. In your article,
- briefly present the indigenous people and the problem they face;
- describe their lifestyle and culture;
- explain why their lifestyle and culture are at risks;
- say why it is important to save this heritage and suggest ways to protect it.
Write your article in 250 to 300 words following the paragraph plan in activity 1 and the ideas in
activity 2
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4tL2fuNTmoQ
Watch the video about the lifestyle of Cameroon’s jungle and write a short report of the documentary.
Ten lines maximum.

-- 2 of 2 --

