FAR AHEAD Tle (UNIT8) READING
UNIT 8 : ACROSS CULTURES
SESSION 2 : Reading
LESSON CONTENT:
Language function Expressions and structures Vocabulary
Asking for and giving
advice
- If you feel homesick, phone home
regularly
- Don’t travel home too often
- You should phone home regularly
- You should avoid travelling home
too often
shock, frighten, worry, homesick,
disappoint, confuse, lonely,
accommodation, self-catering, damp, feel
down , leaflet
Learning Context: On the International Cultural Day, you read a passage about cross-
cultural communication in order to get prepared to receive a group of young tourists from an
American high school.
BEFORE YOU READ
Brainstorming
1. What do you know about the
monument in these two pictures? In
which country is it located?
2. Compare the feelings of the
young man on September 10, and on
October 10. What is different?
3. What is the young man suffering
from?
WHILE READING ACTIVITIES
Activity 1: Read the passage below
and choose the correct ending for
each of these two statements.
1. The speaker in this text is
A. a university lecturer B. a student counselor C. an examiner
2. The audience is made of
A. native students B. foreign students from the same country C. foreign students from
different countries

-- 1 of 3 --

Culture shock
Paragraph 1 It’s very important to be aware that studying in a new country can be quite a stressful
experience even if you have planned your trip carefully. You will find many things that are different from
back home. Consequently, it is very likely that you will experience culture shock after a few weeks here in
Britain. This is caused by the shock of being in a new environment and is worse if you feel homesick and
miss your family and friends. It’s essential to realise that this experience is quite normal. This can affect
anyone, no matter where you come from or where you go. So if you start feeling depressed or lonely, I
encourage you to seek help. You can come at any time to talk things over with counselors here at the
Foreign Students’ Bureau of the university. They are well aware of the problems facing foreign students and
will be able to give you support and advice. Now I’ll quickly run through a few things that you may have
trouble with and ways of coping.
Paragraph 2 First of all, if you are used to a warm climate, you may find the grey, damp British weather
depressing, especially in winter when the days are short. There’s nothing we can do about the climate, but
we can make you aware that this may make you feel down.
Paragraph 3 Another problem area for overseas students is food. It may taste very different from what you
are used to. If you have self-catering accommodation, I suggest you try cooking food you are familiar with
now and again. However, I advise you not to eat a lot of fast food, as an unhealthy diet and lifestyle will
only make you feel worse. Make sure you eat plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables and get lots of exercise.
Paragraph 4 Constantly speaking and listening in a foreign language is tiring, and you may miss your own
language. You may be able to get satellite TV in your language. I recommend that you read online
newspapers or take part in chat groups in your language.
Paragraph 5 If you feel homesick, make sure you keep in touch with home. Phone or skype home
regularly. Use email and social networks to exchange news and photos. But don’t travel home too often as
this can make settling in more difficult. Make friends with fellow foreign students as they will understand
your feelings and be able to sympathise.
Paragraph 6 Every culture has unspoken rules which affect the way people treat one another. You may
find these confusing and difficult to understand. For example, punctuality is important in Britain, so you
should always be on time for lectures. That’s why it is important to make friends with as many local
students as you can. They will help you learn about British culture.
Paragraph 7 Remember, if you feel unhappy, there’s always someone you can talk to here at the bureau.
We also have a leaflet for foreign students summarising the things I’ve been talking about. You can take
one as you leave.
ACTIVITY 2: Find in the text a word or phrase for each of the following meanings.
The indicated lines or paragraphs will help you. Write your answer like
in the example.
Example: 1-be aware
1. know; understand (paragraph 1): ………………………………
2. probable (par. 1) : …………………………………………………

-- 2 of 3 --

ACTIVITY 3: Read the text again and answer the following questions
1. Who is affected by cultural shock in the text?
2. What causes cultural shock?
3. What are the first signs of cultural shock?
4. What is advisable to do when you are in a foreign country?
5. Why can food be a strong problem?
6. What advice does the writer give to the students who have self-catering accommodation
about food?
7. Why is it sensible to make friends with other foreign students?
8. How can local students help international students?
9. What support does the Foreign Students’ Bureau offer to the students it works for?
10. Is the author of this text a local student or a foreign student? Justify your answer.
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
You are a tourist guide for a group of young American high school students visiting your
country. In order to play your role successfully
- write on a notebook what they can say and do
- indicate what they should avoid saying
- mention the tourist attractions they can visit.
3. strong desire to go back home (par. 1) : ……………………….
4. solitary (par. 1) : …………………………………………………..
5. finding a solution (par. 1) : ………………………………………
6. humid (par. 2) : ……………………………………………………
7. depressed (par. 2) : ……………………………………………….
8. foreign (par. 3) : …………………………………………………..
9. private housing (par. 3) : …………………………………………
10. familiarity with new lifestyle (par. 5) : …………………………
11. brochure (par. 7) : ………………………………………………..

-- 3 of 3 --

