.AR AHEAD Tle (UNIT7) READING
UNIT 7: INTERNATIONAL ISSUES
Session2: READING
Learning context: During the English class the students of TleA2 of ‘Lycée Moderne de Korhogo’ are
reading a text about bribery and corruption to prepare a presentation for a conference about some
international issues at accra (GHANA). in order to find some solutions.
LESSON FOCUS
LANGUAGE FUN CTION
Expressing necessity and lack of
necessity
STRUCTURES
-Whistleblowers need to feel
supported by the whole
community and not stigmatised.
-Unfortunately, most people dare
not speak out
VOCABULARY
-Bribery and corruption.
-To trust
-To undermine
-To bribe rulers
-To tackle
- To report
-To sentence
- Guilty.

-- 1 of 4 --

1. Before you read
Look at the picture. What does it show?
Read the quotations.
What do they mean? Do you agree with them?
‘The duty of youth is to challenge corruption.’ Kurt Cobain
To oppose corruption in government is the highest obligation of patriotism.’ G.E. Griffin
1. While you read
Activity 1. Read the text. What social group is most affected by corruption?
5
10
15
20
25
30
Bribery and corruption
Paragraph 1 Corruption has existed throughout history and it affects all levels of society.
Wherever an advantage is to be gained - from lowly paid police officers and local officials,
to government ministers and political leaders - it is a very common practice. Corruption
erodes the trust of people in the political system of their country, its institutions and its
leadership. It affects all levels of society in a multitude of ways, undermining political and
economic development, democracy, the environment, health, justice, to name just a few. In
addition, contrary to popular belief, corruption is prevalent in rich countries as well as in
developing countries.
Paragraph 2 Corruption is both a major cause and a result of poverty around the world. No
matter the country, corruption always affects the poorest citizens the hardest. Some
politicians prefer to invest scarce public resources in projects that will line their pockets
rather than benefit the whole community. They prioritise high-profile projects such as dams,
power plants, pipelines and refineries over less spectacular but more urgent and useful
infrastructure projects like schools, hospitals and roads.
Paragraph 3 It is common to hear that many developing countries remain poor because of
corruption. Yet some rich countries are involved in corrupt practices, too. They often
operate through intermediaries to avoid ‘getting their hands dirty’. Their companies bribe
rulers and officials of developing countries to obtain export contracts, particularly in the
arms trade and public works. Until recently, this was accepted as normal business practice
in order to be competitive.
Paragraph 4 What can be done to tackle bribery and corruption? One of the most direct
methods of exposing corruption is whistleblowing. Unfortunately, most people dare not
speak out. Whistleblowers commonly face retaliation in the form of harassment, firing,
threats and even physical violence, and their disclosures are usually ignored. In some
countries whistleblowers have been imprisoned for exposing scams. Whistleblowers need to
feel supported by the whole community and not stigmatised. It is essential to educate young
people about the importance of whistleblowing, so that they feel safe and confident to report
illegal behaviour. They will be the officials, the managers and the leaders of the future.
Paragraph 5 The media should also play its part in the fight against bribery and corruption by
publicly reporting those who are guilty of corrupt behaviour at all levels of society. It is the

-- 2 of 4 --

35
duty of every citizen to report dishonest actions, and the judiciary’s responsibility to
sentence the offenders if they are found guilty.
Paragraph 6 The fight against corruption begins at home and in the classroom. Children should
be taught the importance of honesty at a very early age. Corruption will never be completely
eradicated from society. However, with campaigns involving the media, schools and both
private and public sectors, the practice of bribery and corruption can undoubtedly be
reduced.
Activity 2. Find synonyms of these words in the text. The provided lines or paragraphs will help
you. Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1) corruption
1) extortion (L1)
2) destroys (L3)
3) confidence (L4)
4) weakening (L5)
5) are interested (L16)
6) to acquire (L18)
7) to handle (L21)
8) to reveal (L27)
9) struggle against ( L29)
10) culpable (L32)
11) eliminated (L35)
Activity 3. Read the text below, then decide whether the following statements are true or false.
Write T for True and F for False, and quote the lines to explain your answers. Write your
answers like in the example.
Example: 1-F (Lines 1 to 3)
1) Politicians are more likely to be corrupted than anyone else.
2) Corruption exists everywhere in the world.
3) Big infrastructure projects are more likely to attract corruption practices.
4) Bribery used to be considered normal business practice.
5) Whistleblowing is useless to fight corruption.
6) Most people are too scared to expose corruption practices.
7) The media should be involved in the fight against bribery and corruption
8) It’s judiciary’s responsibility to sentence the offenders if they are not found guilty
9) To fight against corruption begins in the street.
10) Parents should teach the importance of honesty to their children at a very early age.
11) We should involve only private sector in campaigns

-- 3 of 4 --

Activity 4. COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
You are asked to prepare a presentation for the next English Club meeting of your school. The issue
you have to write about for your talk is ‘Rampant corruption in your country and how this affects
International Relationships’. Use the following to help you:
- Is your country highly corrupted or not?
- Which areas of economic life are touched by this corruption?
- What does the government do to reduce the level of corruption?
- How do International Institutions help to eradicate this evil? Bad behavior
You are asked to prepare a presentation for your school’s next English Club meeting on the
following topic “Corruption will never be completely eradicated from society”.
The following ideas can help you:
- what is corruption for you?
- Is your country highly corrupted or not?
- Which areas of economic activities are touched by this corruption?
- What does the government do to reduce the level of corruption?
- How do International Institutions help to eradicate this misbehaviour ?

-- 4 of 4 --

