Page 1 sur 3
Niveau : Terminale
Discipline : ANGLAIS CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 6: CONTEMPORARY AFRICA
READING
LEARNING CONTEXT
The students of TleA2 of Lycée moderne de Boundiali are reading an article about the boom of Nigerian
film industry to know more about it and write about some of the movies they like watching.
CONTENT
Before you read:
-What are Hollywood, Bollywood and Nollywood?
-What do you know about Nollywood? Can you name any Nollywood films or stars?
5
10
15
20
25
NOLLYWOOD
Paragraph1 The Nigerian film industry is booming. In twenty years, ‘Nollywood’ has grown from
nothing to become the third biggest in the world behind Hollywood and Bollywood in terms of
revenue, and number one in terms of film output. Currently, as many as two thousand films are
produced each year. In Nigeria, an average title sells around 50,000 copies a year, while a hit may
sell several hundred thousand copies. DVDs cost about two dollars each, making them affordable for
most Nigerians, and at the same time generating massive profits.
Paragraph2 Director and actor Kunle Afolayan is a Nollywood celebrity. While Kunle’s films are
seldom seen in the US or Europe, he is a household name in Nigeria. Afolayan’s ambition is to make
huge, American-style blockbusters in his homeland. While this may sound unrealistic in a country
with no reliable supply of electricity, it hardly bothers people. There is a creative energy in Nigeria
that has made it the world’s most prolific producer of feature films.
Paragraph3 The industry employs thousands of people. Wherever you go in Lagos there are job
advertisements for actors. Nollywood stars are omnipresent - in glossy magazines, on billboards and
TV. The African Movie Academy Awards, the continent’s equivalent of the Hollywood Oscars, is
held annually to reward the excellence of professionals in the film industry. This glamorous event is
attended by celebrities, politicians, journalists, and actors from around the world.
Paragraph4 The Nigerian movie industry was born in the early 1990s during a period of economic
hard times. The bawdy humour of these homemade films appealed to local people seeking escape
from poverty and their living conditions. At the same time, street crime and insecurity soared,
causing many cinemas to close as people became reluctant to go out after dark. They preferred to
watch videos at home, but they couldn’t identify with Hollywood and Bollywood stories and
characters. Nigerian entrepreneurs saw a business opportunity and seized it.
Paragraph5 The birth of Nollywood is credited to a businessman who made a film called ‘Living
in Bondage’. It was released in 1992, and was an instant success. The film set the style for typical
Nollywood plots, which depict familiar situations that African people can relate to: romance,
comedy, the occult... Just after, other would-be producers jumped on the bandwagon and the industry
took off.
Paragraph6
Unlike Hollywood and Bollywood, however, Nollywood films are made on a shoestring. An average

-- 1 of 3 --

Page 2 sur 3
30 production takes just ten days and costs about 515,000. Instead of working with written scenarios,
directors often make up the stories. Star actors often work on several films at once, and don’t always
show up when they’re supposed to. This means that sometimes quality is not always up to scratch,
but the public don’t seem to mind. Nigerian films are not only popular throughout Africa, but also
across the Diaspora.
Activity1: Find in the article above the words corresponding to the following meanings. The indicated
paragraphs will help you. Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1- booming
1) Thriving; doing extremely well (paragraph 1) : booming
2) Unlikely; improbable (paragraph 2)
3) Everywhere (paragraph 3)
4) Rude; naughty (paragraph 4)
5) Unwilling; hesitant (paragraph 5)
6) Come; turn up (paragraph 6)
Activity 2: What does each of the following word from the text refer to. Write your answers like in the
example.
Example: 1- DVDs
1. The word them in paragraph 1 refers to ……………………….
2. The word his in paragraph 2 refers to ……………………….
3. The expression this glamorous event refers to ……………………….
4. The word it in paragraph 4 refers to ……………………….
5. The word who in paragraph 5 refers to ……………………….
6. The word they in paragraph 6 refers to ……………………….
Activity 3: Read the article once more and answer the questions below.
1) How does the Nigerian film industry compare with Hollywood and Bollywood?
2) How much do Nigerians pay for the average DVD?
3) Who is Kunle Afolayan and what is his ambition?
4) What practical difficulties do Nigerian films directors face?
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
Your American penfriend sent you an email in which he/she shares with you some of his favourite
movies from Hollywood. Reply him/her by writing about your two favourite Nollywood films.
- State the titles of the two films
- Describe the main characters and their actions
- Give a brief account of each film mentioning the moralities

-- 2 of 3 --

Page 3 sur 3
HOMEWORK
Write a 10-line paragraph about the Ivorian film industry. The following may help you:
- Underline the characteristics of most of the Ivorian movies and their actors;
- Give an example of movie, what it is about and its main actor.
- In what way(s) do Ivorian movies differ from Nollywood ones?
Additional resources
Read more about how Nollywood became the second largest film industry in the world.
Link: https://www.studiobinder.com/blog/what-is-nollywood/

-- 3 of 3 --

