Anglais Terminale, Unit 2, Listening
MON ECOLE A LA MAISON
UNIT 2: Freedom and Rights
SKILL: Listening for Comprehension
Source: Far Ahead Tle / pages 27
Learning context
During a meeting the members of the English Club of Lycée Moderne Tanda listen to a news
report about Human Rights in order to collect information about this issue.
Before you listen
Think about the lives of these people. What difficulties do you think they have in their daily
lives?
A. Moussa is 25 years old and he has been blind since birth.
B. 17 year-old Aicha has been wheelchair-bound since she had an accident six years ago.
C. 68 year-old Fatima is deaf. She started losing her hearing a few years ago.
D. Nadia’s son Emmanuel is 6 years old and he is mentally deficient.
ACTIVITY ONE: Listen to the two people and tick (√) what they are talking about.
1 How they treated disabilities.
2 How they cope with disabilities.
3 How they suffer from disabilities
ACTIVITY TWO: Listen again and complete the sentences with the word you hear. Number
1 is an example.
1. I have to ………………up my job.
2. He needs ………………care.
3. Emmanuel …………..all my time and energy.
4. She …………… looks after him.
5. I use to feel guilty and ………………
6. My parents are ……………language teachers.
7. I am financially ………………..
8. Which is ……………important for my service team.
9. My second life is ……………….
10. The most difficult thing is moving ……………in unfamiliar places.
TERMINALE
ANGLAIS

-- 1 of 2 --

Anglais Terminale, Unit 2, Listening
ACTIVITY THREE: Listen again and match each statement with one of the speakers.
N° STATEMENTS SPEAKERS
1 Travelling alone is a major challenge.
2 The most difficult thing was accepting the situation.
3 I suffered from conflicting emotions.
4 I wish I had more time for my other children.
5 I am lucky because I was able to study and I have a job.
6 My social life is one of the most difficult things.
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
Your Liberian penfriend Tony wants information about the situation of Human Rights in your
country to help him prepare a presentation on Human Rights in West Africa. Record your
answer and send it to him. Your recording may include the following ideas.
Gender discrimination in education
Job opportunities for disabled people
No justice for poor people
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information, go to the following Link.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AlU6GNBXpPE

-- 2 of 2 --

