1
CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 5- :MANAGING RESOURCES
SKILL: Reading for Comprehension
LEARNING CONTEXT
During their English class, the students of Terminale A5 of Lycée Moderne Minignan
are reading an article on land-related social conflicts in order to prepare a presentation
on this issue during the next meeting of the English club.
Source: FAR AHEAD Terminale
Text: Who benefits the most from land grabbing?
LESSON CONTENT:
Language function Expressions and structures Vocabulary
Expressing conditions (2) If we had enough money, we
would buy the land and farm it
ourselves.
Land grabbing, land rush, scarcity, meet the
need of someone, evict, belong to, hunger,
crops, feed, consent, address a problem
Before you read
1. What is land grabbing?
2. Give the main reasons why the phenomenon of land grabbing is frequent
today.
3. What are the consequences of land grabbing in modern societies?
WHILE-READING ACTIVITIES
Read the text below and do all the activities related to it.
Who benefits the most from land grabbing?
The economic crisis of 2008 certainly accelerated the process of land grabbing. If
the crisis had not been so severe, the land rush might not have appeared so urgent for
countries. The recession reinforced the fear of food scarcity and an increase in food
prices; as a result, many investors saw land grabbing as the ideal way to make huge
profits. In Africa, for example, more than 30 million hectares have been ‘grabbed’
during the past 5 years — about 4 million in Sudan alone.
TERMINALE
ANGLAIS
5

-- 1 of 4 --

2
The land is used to grow large monocultures of palm oil or food crops such as corn
and rice, while sugar cane is grown for biofuel, in particular in Mozambique and
Tanzania. These crops are exported to meet the needs of Asian, Middle Eastern and
Western markets.
How does land grabbing affect local populations? Many investors claim that land
grabbing brings new opportunities and economic development to rural communities,
and therefore can help reduce food insecurity and poverty. Some investors may be
well- intentioned, but so far land grabs have mainly had a disastrous impact on local
populations.
Grabbing means evicting farmers and families, forcing them off their own land.
In most cases, the farmers are left with no means of subsistence, no jobs, no food.
Even when food is being produced on the land that used to belong to them, they do
not benefit from it. Land grabbing could only help reduce hunger and poverty if part
of the food crops were used to feed local populations, but this is not the case today.
What can local populations do? How should they react? Defending
their land is all the more difficult since the dispossession is generally
carried out without prior notice, without consulting the communities or
asking for their consent. Farmers’ organisations, human rights groups and
social movements are mobilising worldwide, looking for ways to obtain
more transparency and to support family farming. In October 2014, for
example, the first Africa Conference on Land Grabs was organised in
South Africa to address these issues.
If local populations come together and make themselves heard, they
might be able to limit the negative impact of land grabbing and recover
food sovereignty. But there is still a long way to go before investors and
local communities can become partners and cease to be opponents. Promoting
agricultural development and addressing the world’s food security problems
require investing in farmers, not in farmland.
Activity 1: Choose the writer’s opinion about land grabbing from the following
options.
1. Land grabbing contributes to the reduction of poverty.
2. Foreign investment in agriculture creates jobs and increases export revenue.
3. Land grabbing generally has a negative impact on local people.
Activity 2: Find in the text the words or expressions whose meanings are in the
list below. Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1. scarcity
1. rarity (paragraph. 1) …………………….
2. forcing off; dispossessing (paragraph.1) ……………………
3. limited quantity (paragraph.1) ……………………
4. very big (paragraph 1) ……………………
5. seized (paragraph 1) ……………………
6. satisfy (paragraph 2) ……………………
10
15
20
25
30

-- 2 of 4 --

3
7. say (paragraph 3) ………………………
8. lack of food (paragraph 4) ………………………
9. previous, earlier (paragraph 5) ……………………....
10. agreement (paragraph 5) ………………………
11. effect (paragraph 6) ………………………
Activity 3: Read the text again and decide if the statements below are true (T) or false
(F). justify your answers, quoting the lines. Number 1 is an example.
1. Foreign companies acquire land as an investment. T (line 3)
2. The fear of food shortage in developing countries is a cause of land grabbing. .
3. During the economic recession of 2008, food prices dropped. ………..
4. Foreign investors create large plantations of crops for exportation. ………..
5. Asian grabbing creates new economic opportunities for rural populations ……
6. Land grabbing creates new economic opportunities for rural populations. ……
7. Part of the crops produced on their land is used to feed local populations. ……
8. The first Africa Conference on Land Grabs took place in South Sudan in
October 2014. ……
9. Foreign investors grab land in Africa because African youths migrate to
Europe. …..
10. Unity can help local populations address the land grabbing issue …….
11. Promoting agricultural development requires investing in famers and in
farmland
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
Activity 4: A BBC journalist asks you the following question: How can African
leaders manage the natural resources of their countries such as the land, in
order to improve the lives of their population? Record your answer to be sent
to him for broadcasting on the program ‘New Africa’. The following group of
words can help you:
- promote sustainable agriculture
- encourage intensive agriculture
- grant financial support to farmers
- help farmers to sell their products
- HOMEWORK
-
Here are sentences about agriculture. Read to complete them with the
suitable words from the box. Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1-subsistence
Subsistence – livestock – organic – dairy – fertilizers – industrialized –
mechanized – biofuel - sustainable – monocultures.

-- 3 of 4 --

4
1………………farmers grow crops and rear animals mainly for
their own use.
2……………agriculture increases crop yield by using
chemical…………….and pesticides.
3 This type of agriculture is highly………………………and low
on manpower.
4 Commercial plantations of……………………...produce cash
crops for export.
5 Typical cash crops are sugar cane for…………….….and soya for
animal feed.
6 Nomads are pastoral farmers who move around to find food for
their…………
7 No artificial fertilizers and pesticides are used in
……………………. farming.
8 Intensive………………farms, often called factory farms,
produce huge amounts of milk.
9……………. agriculture uses techniques that protect the
environment, public health, human communities, and animal
welfare.

-- 4 of 4 --

