1
CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT4 TERMINALE: WHAT THE FUTURE HOLDS
SKILL: WRITING
Learning context
The students of Terminale A3 of Lycee Moderne Yopougon Andokoi are writing to the American
Embassy to ask for help in a tree-planting project in order to participate in the protection of the
environment in their school.
Pre-writing phase
I. Vocabulary related to the environment
- Climate: the weather conditions in a specific area.
- Erosion: gradual destruction of soil by wind, water, or other natural agents.
- Heating: augmentation of temperature.
- Rainfall: the quantity of rain falling on an area.
- Deforestation: the action of cutting down many trees in a forest.
- Climate Change: the change in conditions related to temperature, rainfall, etc.
- Ecosystem: a group of living organisms that live and interact with each other in a specific
environment.
II. Language function: expressing causes and effects
1. Expressing causes
Rains are becoming less and less frequent because of deforestation.
Some animals have disappeared from tropical forests due to poaching.
2. Expressing effect
- There are many timber companies in Ivorian forests; consequently rains are becoming less and
less frequent.
TERMINALE
ANGLAIS

-- 1 of 3 --

2
- Poaching has become a very lucrative activity today; as a result some animal species have
disappeared from tropical forests.
Practice
Activity 1: The following text is about environment issues. Complete it with the appropriate
words from the box. Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1. deforestation
deforestation – heating – rainfall – climate change – erosion - ecosystem
Many tropical countries are experiencing environmental problems today. For example, Cote
d’Ivoire which used to have huge hectares of rainforest is suffering from the side effects of (1).
One of these effects is soil (2) due to the lack of natural barrier after heavy rains. Another effect
is the poverty of its (3) due to the total destruction of certain natural and animal species. The
farmers suffer from these environmental problems too. Because of (4), they are no longer able to
plan the growing periods of their different cultures. Secondly, (5) is sometimes too abundant
when they expect moderate rains whereas it becomes moderate or rare when they need heavy
rains. As a result, many of their plants die from excessive (6) of the climate.
Activity 2: Insert the bracketed words in each sentence to express a cause or an effect.
Write your answers like in the example.
Example: 1. Zongo’s crops are not good this year because of a long drought.
(or) Because of a long drought, Zongo’s crops are not good this year.
1. There was a long drought this year; Zongo’s crops are not good. (because of)
2. It was very hot last night; I couldn’t sleep well. (as a result)
3. There is illegal poaching in Ivorian forests; there are very few elephants left. (due to)
4. Many workers couldn’t go to work last week; there were floods in several areas of the
city. (because of)
5. People create farms in national preserves; the ecosystem is negatively affected.
(consequently)

-- 2 of 3 --

3
Communication activity
The English club of your school has decided to start a tree-planting project in order to participate
in the preservation of the environment. As the chairperson of the club, write to the American
Embassy in your country to ask for help. In your letter,
- Introduce yourself and your club
- Specify the types of help you need and why it is important for you.
- Indicate the benefits of your project.

-- 3 of 3 --

