Anglais Terminale, Unit 3, Listening
CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 3: Development issues
SKILL: Listening for Comprehension
Source: Far Ahead Tle / pages 39
Learning context
Lycée Moderne Touba’s English Speaking members listen to a news report in order to find its
general idea and detailed information.
Before you listen
Look at the photo and read the caption.
Who are these people? Why are they protesting?
Are there similar problems in your country?
Listen the news report and do all the activities related to it.
ACTIVITY ONE: Listen to the news report and choose the letter of the sentence which best
summarizes it.
A. The rights of indigenous people are sacrificed in the name of development.
B. A new dam in the Amazon will create jobs and prosperity.
C. Brazil plans to build world’s third largest dam.
ACTIVITY TWO: Listen again to the news report and choose (v) the word you hear.
Number 1 is an example.
N° WORDS
1 larger largest V
2 built build
3 deliver delivered
4 crucial critical
5 added hardly
6 resettled recycle
7 fight flight
TERMINALE
ANGLAIS

-- 1 of 2 --

Anglais Terminale, Unit 3, Listening
ACTIVITY THREE: Listen again and complete the sentences.
1. The Kayapo Indians are protesting against the construction of a ………………………
2. If it is built, it will be the ………………………in the world.
3. Over …………………… people have signed a petition against the project.
4. The dam is expected to provide electricity for ……………………homes.
5. The evicted Indians will receive ……………………..compensation.
6. As many as …………………….people could be made homeless.
7. If the project is completed …………………..square hectares of land will be flooded.
8. The Indians say they will ………………………for their rights.
COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
After listening to the report about the Indians’ demonstration at a meeting of the English
Club, you are asked to discuss this issue.
Say if the Indians demonstration was appropriate or not.
Indicate if you have ever experienced a similar situation in your country and say what
happened.
Suggest solutions to avoid such conflicts in society.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L2lLWbZS2-o
watch the video and answer the questions below.
1. Why are people demonstrating?
2. Where does the scene happen?

-- 2 of 2 --

