CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 1 : LIFESTYLE – MOVING WITH THE TIMES
SKILL: WRITING
LESSON 3 : A FORMAL LETTER OF COMPLAINT
SOURCE : FAR AHEAD TERMINALE page 16
Language function Expressions / structures Vocabulary
Expressing complaint
I want to complain about….
I’m angry about….
There is a probem about….
condemn ; accuse, charge,
protest, grievance, objection,
trouble, criticism, etc.
Learning context
During their English class, the Terminale D students of Lycée Manicipal Maféré are writing to the
Ghanaian embassy to complain about the polluting activities of a gold exploitation company of
their country at the border with Cote d’Ivoire in order to contribute to the preservation of the
environment.
Study of a model letter
Read the following text and answer the questions relating to it.
Binta Ndale
P O Box 47 Douala
13 April 2015
The Manager of the National
Electricity Board
P O Box 3360 Douala
Dear Sir or Madam,
I live in Douala Fifth district and I go to the Bonamoussadi High School. I wish to make a
complaint about the frequent power cuts that we have in my neighbourhood.These sometimes last
for several weeks at a time. The most recent power cut lasted from 25th March to 5th April. Other
cuts have lasted even longer.
Power cuts make it very difficult to study. When there is no electricity, we cannot use
computers, and we do not have access to the Internet. Furthermore, we cannot listen to CDs in our
English lessons. In the evenings, we have no electricity and therefore no lighting at home. In these
conditions, it is impossible to do homework or prepare for exams. People depend on mobile
phones for employment and business, but without electricity they cannot be charged. This has a
negative impact on people’s lives and businesses.
TERMINALE
ANGLAIS

-- 1 of 4 --

I realise that technical problems are inevitable, but a reliable power system is essential. We
pay forour electricity and therefore I feel that we should receive a good service. I hope the supply
can be improved for the benefit of everyone.
Yours faithfully,
Binta Ndale
Questions
1. What type of text is this ?
2. Identify the main parts of the text ?
3. Is the writer happy or not ? Find out the details that express her mood.
II. LAYOUT OF A LETTER OF COMPLAINT
(1) RECEIVER’S ADDRESS (2) WRITER’S ADDRESS
Name, position and address PO BOX………..
(3)DATE DD/MM/YY
(4) OPENING FORMULA
Dear Sir/Madam or Mr. /Mrs. followed by the receiver’s name
(5)BODY
-Point of the letter
Mention the reason for writing the letter
-Details about the point of the letter
Explain the point of the letter providing details including facts and examples
-State the consequences.
List some consequences of the situation that led to the complaint.
-Suggest some solutions and express your hopes.
Suggest solutions to the receiver and invite him / her to take actions.
(6) CLOSING OF THE LETTER
Yours faithfully/yours sincerely
(7) SIGNATURE
Name in CAPITAL LETTERS and signature

-- 2 of 4 --

Writing strategy
A good letter of complaint should:
* be concise and precise
*include appropriate details
* be written using polite words to encourage the receiver to respond positively

-- 3 of 4 --

COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
A British mining company is polluting the environment in your village. Write to the British
embassy to complain about this situation. In your letter
- say where your village is located
- indicate the type of pollution the British company is generating and specify how it is affecting
the environment and the people.
- invite the British representative to take actions to solve the problem.

-- 4 of 4 --

