Page 1 sur 3
Niveau : Terminale
Discipline : ANGLAIS CÔTE D’IVOIRE – ÉCOLE NUMÉRIQUE
UNIT 6: CONTEMPORARY AFRICA
SPEAKING
LEARNING CONTEXT
As members of your English club, you are receiving a lecturer who has just made a presentation on the
topic “Africa, sixty years after the independence.” After the presentation, the audience asks questions to
the presenter about Africa’s economic problems.
.II-INPUT PHASE
A- VOCABULARY: Related to field economics
- Workforce: total number of people who are physically able to do a job and are available for
work.
- Growth: increase, development in size
- Investor: a person or organization that puts money in a field (infrastructures, bank, stock
exchange) in order to get profits.
- To invest (verb):
Example: the government invests money in education.
- To eradicate: to get rid of; eliminate;
- A boom: a high increase (in economy)
-Worth: value
- Wealth: money and possessions
B- LANGUAGE FUNCTION Emphasizing ideas with “not only….., but also….”
- We use this structure to emphasize two things, about a thing or a person.
Example: Drogba is not only a celebrity in Africa, but he is also well-known in Europe.
- We use “inversion” subject-verb when not only at the beginning of a sentence. Example: Not
only has Akissi Delta directed films, but she has also won many awards.
- With ordinary action verbs, we use do, does, did. Example: Not only does Eddy Murphy act in
films, but he also directs them.

-- 1 of 3 --

Page 2 sur 3
III- PRACTICE PHASE
Activity1: Choose the correct words in bold to complete the text. (Adapted from FAR
AHEAD Tle page 67. Number 1 is done as an example. 1. growth
Ethiopia’s (1) wealth/ growth rate is one of the highest in Africa. The country’s construction (2)
boom/infrastructure is being driven by the country’s recent rapid economic growth. Addis
Ababa is a massive construction site with high-rise buildings owned by private (3) workforce/
investors going up everywhere. Public works projects (4) worth/eradicate millions of dollars
include new roads, railways and massive power generation schemes across the country. The
government is pouring money into (5) resources/ infrastructure to attract further investment and
help (6) industrialise/ eradicate the economy in order to create jobs and (7) eradicate/ invest
poverty.
Kenya’s telecommunications and IT (8) sectors/ wealth are showing exponential growth. The
improved education system means that there is a large, young and educated (9) boom/ workforce
ready to participate in the economy.
Activity 2: Join these sentences with not only…..but also….. Write two possibilities each time. (FAR
AHEAD
Tle, exercise 5 page 70)
Example: That man is a good actor. He is a good singer as well.
- “Not only is that man a good actor, but he is a good singer.
1) Gnoan M’balla wrote the scenario of his films. He produced them too.
2) Anna works very hard. She earns a lot of money.
3) The film company has taken ages to shoot the film. They have spent a fortune.
IV-COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
Activity 3: You have applied to be a BBC correspondent in your country. As a test, BBC interview you.
Answer his questions below about the economic situation of your country. Record your answers using
your mobile phone to be sent to him/her. You can compare your answer to the repoter’s.
1) What is the economic situation like in your country?
2) Which sectors of the economy are the most important?
3) What do you think needs to be done to improve the economy?
4) Do women and men equally contribute to the economic growth of your country?
(to be recorded for the students)
HOMEWORK
During your next English class, you’ll be discussing the following topic: “What do you think needs to be
done to improve the Ivorian economy?” Prepare your arguments for that talk taking into account the
following ideas.
- A favourable environment for foreign investment;
- A flourishing economy cannot rely on coffee and cocoa alone. There’s a necessity
to diversify Ivorian agricultural produce.
- Industrialisation and mechanization of agriculture.
- Promoting small and medium-sized companies.
- Promoting competition and diversifying economic partners.

-- 2 of 3 --

Page 3 sur 3
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
What is the impact of Covid 19 on Africa’s economy? Read this to find out:
https://www.afdb.org/en/knowledge/publications/african-economic-outlook

-- 3 of 3 --

